# LISP-Interpreter
## Part 1 - Front-end of the interpreter
### Function
Read in an input s-expression in either dot or list notation (or both), convert it into the appropriate internal representation, and ouput the s-expression in the dot notation. Then it will read the next s-expression and go through the same process until it does this for all the s-expressions in the input stream. </br> </br>
Each s-expression in the input stream may be over one or more lines. The white-space characters that will be used are the blank character, tabs, and carriage return/newline. Each complete s-expression will be followed by a line containing a single “$” sign. The last s-expression will be followed by a line containing “$$”. An identifier will consist of a letter of the alphabet followed by one or more letters or digits; only uppercase letters will be used. An integer may be signed or unsigned; thus, 42, -42, +42, are all valid. Integers will have no more than 6 digits; and symbolic atom names will have no more than 10 characters. The only characters that will appear on the input stream are uppercase letters, digits, white-space, and $; no operator symbols will be used. </br> </br>
So the program should read in the first s-expression, convert it into the internal representation, and output the s-expression in dot notation. The input s-expression may be ill-formed, e.g., may contain two dots in a row or may contain parentheses where they shouldn’t appear, etc.; or you may find a character, such as “#”, that should not appear in the input stream at all; or you may find a line with a “$” prematurely, i.e., before the s-expression is complete; etc. In all such cases, you should print an appropriate error message, skip the remaining lines until the next line that contains “$” and then continue to read the next s-expression. Once you have output, in dot notation, one s-expression, you should go past the line containing the $ sign, read the next s-expression and continue in the same manner until you read a line containing $$ which indicates the end of the input. </br> </br>

## Part 2 - Lisp expression evaluator
### Function
In this part of the project, main() function will use the input() function implemented in part 1 of the project to read in the next s-expression from the standard input stream. The s-expression will be expected to be a Lisp expression, unlike in part 1 where it could be any legal s-expression; but it will be the job of eval[] and associated functions to check this, not that of input() or main(). Next, the main() function will use your output() function from part 1 to output the just read s-expression. The main() function will then call the eval[] function, passing it the just-read s-expression as the Lisp expression to be evaluated, and NIL as a-list. When control returns, eval[] will return the resulting value which will, of course, be another s-expression. The main() function will then use the output() function to output this resulting s-expression. Once this is complete, the main() function should loop back to the start and use input() to read the next input s-expression; etc. If the next line contains “$$”, signifying the end of the input stream, you should print an appropriate message and quit. You may want extend your output() function so that it outputs also in list notation but this is not required. </br> </br>
If, in any of these steps, you run into an error, you should output an appropriate error message, raise an exception, which the main() function should catch, and then continue to read the next s-expression. Note that you may run into an error not only during input() but also during evaluation. The main errors of this kind are, unbound atom, all the bi’s in a COND evaluating to NIL; use of a function that has not been previously defined; if you come across other kinds of errors, please email or post on Piazza. Note also that you may assume that the input() function will not encounter any errors in this part of the project (since those errors really belong in part 1). So the only errors you have to worry about are those that occur during evaluation of the Lisp expressions. </br>
